feat(dashmate): configure docker build args via config (#3764)
dashevo/platform: docs/shielded-seeder-performance.md

| GroveDB Merk propagation | Once per `apply_drive_operations` call (batched) | always negligible |

The Sinsemilla appends dominate. Each Pallas hash is the inner loop:
~20k cycles in release, ~200k–2M cycles in debug.

## Wall-clock measurements

Apple M-series, single SDK_TEST_DATA dashmate node, fresh `yarn reset`:

| N | Profile | Wall clock | Source |
|---|---|---|---|
| 500 | dev | ~1 s | observed |
| 16 | dev | <100 ms | unit test |
| 500 000 | dev | **30+ min and not done** | observed 2026-05-23 |
| 500 000 | release | ~1–3 min | extrapolated from release Pallas timing (~10 μs/hash × 9.5M ÷ 1 core ≈ 95 s) |
| 1 000 000 | release | ~3–6 min | linear extrapolation |
| 1 000 000 | dev | ~60–120 min | unusable |

## Options researched, ranked by impact / cost

### 1. Release build (`CARGO_BUILD_PROFILE=release`) — **recommended first step**

- **Speedup:** ~20–50× for the Sinsemilla phase; ~10× overall.
- **Effort:** one config option in dashmate (see below) + one Docker build arg.
- **Tradeoff:** slower image builds (release optimizations take longer to compile), larger debug-info-stripped binary remains ~50–100 MB vs ~700 MB for debug.

> - **Status:** plumbed through dashmate as `platform.drive.abci.docker.build.cargoBuildProfile` — set to `release` when you want fast seeding.

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=a96af93d5406 dedupe=1c186ee9bb66d554 -->
**🟡 Suggestion: Doc references a config path that does not exist**

Line 44 says the release profile is plumbed through dashmate as `platform.drive.abci.docker.build.cargoBuildProfile`, but the schema in `configJsonSchema.js` only adds a generic `buildArgs` map — there is no `cargoBuildProfile` field. The same document uses the correct path (`buildArgs.CARGO_BUILD_PROFILE`) later on lines 113 and 121. An operator following the line-44 instruction will hit `InvalidOptionPathError` or set an inert field.

```suggestion
- **Status:** plumbed through dashmate as `platform.drive.abci.docker.build.buildArgs.CARGO_BUILD_PROFILE` — set to `release` when you want fast seeding.
```

<sub>source: ['claude']</sub>

Author: `docs/shielded-seeder-performance.md` was removed in 868ae52122 (the dynamic-compose pivot) and is no longer referenced from the schema or defaults. The flagged config path no longer exists in any doc. Stale — resolving.
